0: Sorted leukocyte subpopulations were lysed in 500 L of Tri Reagent (MRC) for parallel isolation of RNA and proteins.
1: Upon addition of 4-bromoanisole and 15 min centrifugation at 14 000   g, proteins were precipitated with acetone from the lower organic phase.
2: RNA present in upper aqueous phase was further purified using RNeasy purification columns according to the instructions of the manufacturer (Qiagen).
3: The concentration of RNA was determined spectrophotometrically (Nanodrop, Thermo Scientific) and 1 g of RNA was immediately reverse transcribed into cDNA using MuMLV reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) and oligo dT primers.
4: After reverse transcription, the cDNA was diluted 10 times with sterile water and stored at 20 C prior qPCR.
5: qPCR was performed in 3 L volumes in 384-well microplates using QuantiTect SYBR Green PCR Master Mix (Qiagen) and a Nanodrop pipetting station from Innovadyne for PCR mix dispensing following MIQE recommendations [ 12].
6: Amplification of PCR products and signal detection were performed using a LightCycler II (Roche) with an initial denaturation at 95 C for 15 min followed by 40 cycles of 95 C for 20 s, 60 C for 30 s and 72 C for 30 s, followed by the determination of melting temperature of resulting PCR products to exclude false positive amplification.
7: Each sample was subjected to qPCR in duplicate and the mean values of the Cq values of genes of interest were normalized (Ct) to an average Cq value of three reference genes (GAPDH, TBP and UB).
8: The relative expression of each gene of interest was finally calculated as 2 Cq.
9: Statistical analysis using a two sample t test for means equality was performed when comparing levels of mRNA expression between chicken groups and results with  p value  0.05 were considered as significantly different in expression.
10: Sequence of reference genes GAPDH, TBP and UB have been published elsewhere [ 13,  14].
11: Sequences of all newly designed primers used in this study including their location within different exons and sizes of PCR products are listed in Additional file  1.
