0: Several transcriptome surveys were conducted to identify  P. notatum apomixis-associated genes.
1: Firstly, transcripts expressed in sexual and apomictic florets were compared by using differential display, allowing the identification of a pioneer apomixis candidate gene homologous to the maize kinesin-like motor protein KIN-14P [ 28].
2: Then, Laspina et al.
3: [ 29] identified 65 transcripts differentially expressed in spikelets of apomictic and sexual genotypes at premeiosis/meiosis, several of which mapped in silico to a rice chromosome 2 region that had previously been associated with apospory by comparative mapping [ 54,  55].
4: Moreover, endosperm RNA representation comparisons 324 h after pollination revealed more than 100 differentially expressed transcripts (DETs) in seeds that differed from the expected 2 m:1p genome contribution ratio, formed when apomictic plants were used as female parents in crosses (the endosperm involved 4 m:1p, 8 m:1p or 8 m:3p contribution ratios, depending on the cross) [ 56].
5: Besides, transcripts related to endosperm development were identified in apomictic and sexual ovaries of  Paspalum notatum 48 h after pollination, a stage prior to post-zygotic collapse [ 57].
6: These DETs were mainly associated with genes related to transcription, signal transduction, growth/division, protein destination and storage, as well as regulation of gene expression.
7: Interestingly, several differential sequences identified at the onset of endosperm development showed high similarity with proteins expressed in response to changes in the levels of extracellular ATP [ 56,  57].
8: Besides, the Roche 454/FLX + long-read technology was used to produce apomictic and sexual reference floral transcriptomes on an equitable mix of RNA extracted from spikelets at different developmental states from premeiosis to anthesis [ 31].
9: Recently, De Oliveira et al.
10: (2020) [ 58] reported a global gene expression analysis using Illumina Hi-Seq technology on RNA isolated from leaf and floral tissues of 2x sexual, 4x sexual and 4x apomictic genotypes.
11: Interestingly, 89 DETs expressed in apomictic or sexual plants mapped at the chromosome regions of rice syntenic to the Paspalum apomixis controlling locus (ACL) [ 58].
