0: The genes encoding AAF are usually organized in one operon that encodes four distinct proteins (schematically depicted in  Figure 1(a)).
1: The gene  aggD encodes a chaperone protein,  aggC encodes an usher protein, whereas the structural genes  aggA and  aggB encode the major and the minor fimbrial subunit, respectively [ 20], with AggB sitting at the tip of a polymer body formed by AggA subunits [ 21].
2: AAF are assembled using the chaperone-usher (CU) pathway, similar to various other types of fimbriae in Gram-negative bacteria [ 22, 23].
3: We have recently performed a comparative characterization of virulence relevant properties of the Stx2-encoding phage-cured EHEC O104:H4 with other prototypical EAEC, including the very close relative EAEC 55989.
4: Overall, EHEC O104:H4 displayed similar phenotypic characteristics to the other EAEC, with the notable exception that significantly more bacteria were found to be attached to cultured epithelial cells [ 24].
5: However, it was not clear, if the increased numbers of bacteria attached to cultured epithelial cells were due to other factors that are specifically encoded in EHEC O104:H4, differences in regulation and-/or expression of the AAF fimbriae, or if this phenotype could be attributed directly to different AAF/I properties.
6: In order to phenotypically characterize AAF/III in comparison with AAF/I, we heterologously expressed AAF/I and AAF/III in AAF-negative EAEC 55989 derivative (EAEC 55989  agg3 ) as well as AAF/IV and AAF/V, which are more distantly and more closely related to AAF/III than AAF/I, respectively.
7: Expression of the AAF subtypes on the bacterial cell surface was confirmed by Western blot analysis and electron microscopy (EM).
8: This further showed that the expression of all four AAF clusters resulted in autoaggregation and sedimentation of the aggregates in liquid culture, albeit at different kinetics.
9: When incubated together, mixed aggregates were formed, but AAF-negative variants were not included, indicating that all tested AAF subtypes do not interact with other EAEC surface structures.
10: Moreover, AAF-promoted biofilm formation by the different AAF subtypes was found to be temperature-dependent and correlated inversely with the observed autoaggregation phenotype.
11: Finally, we show that AAF/I expressing EAEC strain 55989  agg3  formed larger bacterial clusters on HEp-2 cells, similar to what we have previously shown for the outbreak strain EHEC O104:H4 [ 24].
