0: Mycoplasmas were first described 100 years ago.
1: To date more than 210 species have been identified to be widely distributed among humans, animals, insects, and plants.
2: Unlike gram-negative bacteria, mycoplasmas are the smallest and simplest self-replicating bacteria.
3: Mycoplasmas, lack a rigid cell wall, use the universal stop codon UGA for tryptophan, and are small enough to pass through bacterial-retaining filters.
4: Mycoplasmas are classified into the Mollicutes class [ 1, 2].
5: Most human and animal mollicutes belong to the  Mycoplasma and  Ureaplasma genera of the family Mycoplasmataceae.
6: Mycoplasmas evolved from gram-positive bacteria that underwent significant genome reduction; as such, most members of this genus exhibit host and tissue specificities and have limited metabolic options for replication and survival, forcing them to adapt to procure metabolic precursors from the host [ 3].
7: To accomplish this pathogenic process, mycoplasmas must first overcome several obstacles to successfully invade the hosts defense and reach full lifecycles.
8: The invasiveness of mycoplasmas is mediated by surface adhesins and their accessory proteins, capsular polysaccharides, invasive enzymes, and biofilms, all of which ensure their establishment, reproduction, and spread  in vivo [ 47].
9: During the parasitism cycle, mycoplasmas absorb nutrients from host cells and release a large number of metabolites, such as hydrogen peroxide (H 2O 2), ammonia (NH 3) and hydrogen sulfide (H 2S), causing localized tissue damage [ 8, 9].
10: Certain mycoplasmas can also secrete some exotoxins, including community-acquired respiratory distress syndrome toxin (CARDS TX), and hemolysins [ 10, 11].
11: These toxins have different functions and can affect host cell functions in several ways.
12: Mycoplasmas can also express various pathogenic enzymes such as lipolytic enzymes, peptidases, phosphatases, ecto-ATPases, cytotoxic nucleases and nucleotidases, that are considered important mycoplasma pathogenic factors [ 12, 13].
13: Furthermore, some inherent components located at the mycoplasma cell membrane, such as lipids, membrane lipoproteins, and even superantigens produced by  Mycoplasma arthritidis, could trigger an inflammatory response through various strategies ( Figure 1) [ 1416].
14: Although several questions remain unanswered, significant progress has been made in identifying the virulence factors by which mycoplasmas interact with and subsequently damage the host cells.
15: In this review, we aim to discuss the primary virulence factors of mycoplasmas to better understand the strategies used to penetrate the circulation system and increase infectivity in both humans and animals.
