0: Another option for the detection of quench-induced precipitates is through the scattering effects of X-rays, i.e., by applying small angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) measurements during cooling of relevant alloys [ 102, 103, 104].
1: In addition to X-ray scattering, small-angle neutron scattering (SANS) can also in principle be used for the detection of precipitation processes [ 70, 105], although the neutron fluxes are lower and the interaction is also lower, therefore the counting times are usually higher (i.e., hours) in SANS which is a limitation for in situ measurements [ 106].
2: The detection limit in terms of particle size depends on the small angle resolution, and is therefore dependent on the distance between the detector and the sample [ 106].
3: These small-angle scattering techniques are typically restricted to the detection of very small precipitates, with dimensions below about 100 nm [ 71, 105, 107].
4: This is a severe limitation for the detection of quench-induced precipitation, as several of the quench-induced particles are much larger.
5: In addition, wide-angle X-ray scattering (WAXS) can be applied for the detection of precipitation processes [ 108, 109].
6: A specifically adapted Baehr 805 quenching dilatometer has been installed to allow in situ detection of WAXS and SAXS signals within the high-energy materials science beamline P07 at PETRA III within the  Deutsches Elektronen Synchrotron (DESY).
7: This setup allows the in situ detection of phase formation during cooling of metallic alloys [ 110].
8: The applied high energy of this beamline results in a sufficient time resolution for in situ experiments, and the capability of this setup for in situ analysis of quench-induced precipitation in AlZnMgCu alloys has been demonstrated very recently [ 111].
9: Using the abovementioned scattering techniques, information on the presence of certain crystal structures and therefore phases can be gained (WAXS), and conclusions on the particle size and volume fractions can be drawn (SAXS, SANS).
10: For details on these techniques and their theory, the reader is referred e.g., to Ref.
11: [ 112].
