0: Since precipitation is an exothermic process, and dissolution an endothermic one, they can be detected by thermal analysis.
1: Cavazos and Colas used direct thermal analysis of Jominy-like end-quench samples, i.e., they evaluated the changes in slope of the measured temperature development at different positions in the sample [ 25].
2: A more precise analysis of the thermal effects of solid-solid phase transformations is possible using calorimetry.
3: DSC, in particular, allows for the detection of quench-induced precipitation in age-hardening metals [ 31, 78, 79, 80].
4: Amongst the potential methods for the in situ detection of quench-induced precipitation in aluminium alloys, DSC is the most effective approach, as it has significant advantages.
5: These in brief are:  DSC allows for controlled linear heating and cooling by providing the largest accessible dynamic scanning rate range, which now covers the whole cooling rate range of technological and physical relevance.
6: By using a combination of different DSC devices, rates of about 10    5 to 10    5 K/s [    83,    84] can be achieved.
7: DSC samples are typically in the mm range, which in most cases allows further analysis after the DSC experiment, for instance for hardness testing or microstructural investigations [    83,    84,    113].
8: In addition to linear cooling, nonlinear Newtonian heating and cooling can also be investigated using DSC [    114].
9: With regard to the abovementioned detection limits, DSC offers the highest sensitivity of all techniques over the whole dynamic range.
10: In particular, precipitation of any precipitate size and very small volume fractions of precipitation can be detected by DSC, and even cluster formation can be recorded [    99,    115].
11: If properly conducted, DSC allows for quantitative evaluation of the enthalpy changes related to precipitation.
12: Since these enthalpy changes are directly proportional to the atomic fraction transformed, analysis of the volume fraction of precipitates is possible [    116,    117,    118,    119].
