0: The reported antiviral mechanisms of LF include (1) direct binding to viral protein and inhibition of the adsorption of virus to the target cells [ 1214]; (2) binding to heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs) on the host cell surface, which reduces viral attachment and subsequent viral entry [ 1519].
1: Heparan sulfate (HS) is a linear and sulfated polysaccharide that is abundantly expressed on the surface of almost all cell types in the forms of HSPGs.
2: The negatively charged HSPGs often serve as an attachment factor for a diverse of viruses [ 20, 21]; (3) interfere with intracellular trafficking of virus [ 22].
3: LF was reported to have antiviral activity against SARS-CoV [ 17].
4: However, the broad-spectrum antiviral activity and antiviral mechanism of action of LF against common human coronaviruses as well as SARS-CoV-2 have not been systematically studied and therefore warrants further investigation.
5: In this work, we profiled the broad-spectrum antiviral activity of LF against multiple common human coronaviruses including HCoV-OC43, HCoV-NL63, and HCoV-229E as well as SARS-CoV-2 and its mechanism of action.
6: It was found that LF inhibits not only SARS-CoV-2, but also HCoV-OC43, HCoV-NL63, and HCoV-229E.
7: The antiviral mechanism of action of LF was found to be mediated through binding to HSPGs on the host cell surface, thereby preventing viral attachment to the host cells.
8: Several recent studies suggest that HSPGs serve as an attachment factor for the initial tethering of SARS-CoV-2 spike protein to host cell membrane and facilitates the subsequent binding to the specific receptor ACE2 [ 2326].
9: Specifically, drug time-of-addition experiment and SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus assays indicated that LF exerts its antiviral activity by blocking viral attachment to target cells.
10: In addition, LF has direct binding to heparin, a mimetic of HSPGs, and pre-mixing LF with heparin decreased the inhibitory activity of LF on viral attachment and reduced antiviral activity of LF in cell culture.
11: Furthermore, we have shown that LF has synergistic antiviral effect with remdesivir, which further warrants its development as a potential anti-coronavirus agent against both current circulating and future emerging coronaviruses.
