0: The incidence rate of gynecological malignancies is increasing in Japan, but mortality is stable due to more effective treatment and better diagnostic techniques.
1: However, the treatment of advanced cancer remains problematic [ 1].
2: Metastasis is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in cancer patients, so investigation of the mechanisms involved is very important.
3: Metastasis of cancer cells is a highly selective and non-random process that comprises a series of linked events.
4: Various molecular and genetic changes define the multistep process of tumor dissemination, which has been described as the metastatic cascade [ 2].
5: Hematogenous metastasis is a complex biological process that includes the steps of intravasation, transport in the blood, extravasation, and growth in a distant organ [ 3].
6: For hematogenous metastasis to occur, every step of the cascade must be completed [ 4].
7: According to the seed and soil theory of Paget, organ selectivity of metastasis is based on the interaction between tumor cells (the seed) and the microenvironment of the target organ (the soil), which supports extravasation, survival, and growth of the metastatic tumor [ 5].
8: Metastasis of gynecological malignancies can occur via the lymphatic, hematogenous, and transcoelomic routes.
9: For cervical cancer, the most frequent sites of metastasis are the lungs, paraaortic lymph nodes, supraclavicular lymph nodes, and abdominal cavity [ 6].
10: For endometrial cancer, the most frequent sites are the lung and liver, followed by other sites such as the adrenal gland, breast, bone, skin, and brain [ 7].
11: In the case of ovarian cancer, transcoelomic metastasis is the most common, followed by pelvic lymph node, peritoneal, lymphatic, and, rarely, by hematogenous spread [ 8].
12: Metastasis to the brain is one of the most feared complications of cancer, since patients with brain metastasis usually have a poor prognosis and rapidly progressive neurologic symptoms.
13: Consequently, treatment of brain metastases is becoming an increasingly important determinant of the survival time and quality of life for cancer patients, meaning that early detection and optimal management of brain metastases are essential.
14: According to the brain tumor registry of Japan (19841996), tumors of the lung (52.3 %), breast (8.9 %), and rectum (5.2 %) are most likely to metastasize to the brain, while brain metastasis from gynecological malignancies is rare (1.7 % for uterine cancer and 0.8 % for ovarian cancer) [ 9].
15: However, a recent study suggested that the incidence of brain metastasis from gynecological malignancies is rising along with the longer survival of patients with these tumors due to effective treatment and the availability of better imaging techniques [ 10].
