0: Allergic rhinitis is a disease provoked by IgE-mediated immune response and demonstrates a long-lasting inflammation of nasal mucosa.
1: IgE/allergen interaction on the exterior of basophils and mast cells results in the stimulation of these cells for the liberation of mediators comprising histamine, leukotrienes, prostaglandins, platelet activating factor (PAF) and cytokines.
2: T-helper cell (Th2) cytokines are known to have a principal responsibility in the developing allergic sensitization and pathology of allergic inflammation (Maes et al.,  2012).
3: Furthermore.
4: IL-1, TNF-, and TGF- cytokines are commonly exist in the inflamed sites in the body.
5: These mediators can consequently recruit extra inflammatory cells, initiate the release of more inflammatory mediators and stimulate afferent nerves (Greiner et al.,  2011).
6: Moreover, it has been reported that this condition is accompanied by increase of lysophosphatidyl choline that in turn increases the cell permeability to sodium (Na +) and calcium (Ca 2+), induces membrane depolarization, enhances IgE response, supports phagocytic action, prevents adenylate cyclase, and stimulates phosphodiesterase and consequently reducing cAMP levels in the cells.
7: These changes promote the liberation of mediators from mast cells generating airway inflammation (Agrawal et al.,  1986).
8: The released mediators in this allergic condition trigger allergic manifestations (Wang et al.,  2016) including nasal symptoms such as rhinorrhoea, sneezing, nasal itching and nasal obstruction (Aria Workshop Group; World Health Organization,  2001).
9: Eye redness, itching and tearing can also develop.
10: As the related symptoms may disrupt sleep, cause lethargy, and affect patient concentration, it has been reported that this type of allergy affects the quality of patient life and adds loads on the health care systems (Kim et al.,  2007).
11: The usual pharmacological therapeutic protocol for the management of allergic rhinitis involves the use of topical and/or oral antihistamines, intranasal corticosteroids, anticholinergics or antihistamine-decongestant combinations, leukotriene receptor antagonists and mast cell stabilizers such as cromoglycic acid (Sur & Scandale,  2010).
12: As histamine has the major role in the allergic reactions, this type of rhinitis is commonly treated with antihistamines that have been clinically used for several years.
13: Antihistamines manage the baseline symptoms including sneezing and nasal secretions and inhibit the allergen-provoked liberation of mediators from mast cell in the nasal mucosa.
14: As histamine release is responsible for all the pathological features of allergic rhinitis except the inflammatory reactions of the late phase (Iriyoshi et al.,  1996), patients do not attain entire symptom management with a single drug therapy (Fabbri et al.,  2014).
15: Thus, combination treatment can be recommended for managing the entire symptoms of the condition.
