0: The Hu sheep ovaries were harvested and total RNA was extracted from the ovaries using the TRIZOL RNA extraction kits (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA).
1: RNA concentration and purity were checked using Nano Drop 2000 spectrophotometer (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Wilmington, DE).
2: The integrity of the RNA was validated using the RNA Nano 6000 Assay Kit (Agilent Technologies, CA, USA).
3: A total of 1.5 g of RNA was used per sample as the input material to remove rRNAs.
4: This was done using Ribo-Zero rRNA removal kit (Epicentre, Madison, WI, USA).
5: The Sequencing libraries for six samples (HPgroup, n = 3; LP group, n = 3) were generated by NEBNextR UltraTM Directional RNA Library Prep Kit for IlluminaR (NEB, USA).
6: The sequences for each of the samples were labelled with index codes.
7: Fragments of 150-2 bps were selected by purifying the library fragments using AMPure XP beads (Beckman Coulter, Beverly, USA).
8: Three (3) lUSEREnzyme (NEB, USA) was subsequently used alongside size-selected, adaptor-ligated cDNAs at 37 C for 15 min prior to polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
9: The PCR was then run using Phusion High-Fidelity DNA polymerase, Universal PCR primers and index (X) Primer.
10: PCR products were finally purified (AMPure XPsystem, Beckman Coulter, Beverly, MA, USA) and quality of the library was evaluated using Agilent Bioanalyzer 2100 through quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR).
11: The previously index-coded samples were aggregated on acBot Cluster Generation System using TruSeq PE Cluster Kitv3-cBot-HS (Illumia) following the manufacturers instructions.
12: Library preparations were sequenced using Illumina Hiseq platform after cluster generation, and paired-end reads were generated.
13: The purity and size of the library were assessed by the Agilent 2100 system (Agilent, California).
14: The transcript sequences of ovaries used for the study have been deposited in the Sequence Read Archive (SRA) repository of the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) (SRA accession number: PRJNA638028).
