0: Loss of tooth or enamel is widespread in multiple mammal lineages.
1: Although several studies have been reported, the evolutionary mechanisms of tooth/enamel loss are still unclear.
2: Most previous studies have found that some tooth-related genes have been inactivated in toothless and/or enamel-less mammals, such as   ENAM,   ODAM,   C4orf26,   AMBN,   AMTN,   DSPP, etc.
3: Here, we conducted evolutionary analyses on   ACPT playing a key role in amelogenesis, to interrogate the mechanisms.
4: We obtained the   ACPT sequences from 116 species, including edentulous and enamel-less mammals.
5: The results shows that variant ORF-disrupting mutations were detected in   ACPT coding region among nine edentulous baleen whales and three enamel-less taxa (pygmy sperm whale, aardvark, nine-banded armadillo).
6: Furtherly, selective pressure uncovered that the selective constraints have been relaxed among all toothless and enamel-less lineages.
7: Moreover, our results support the hypothesis that mineralized teeth were lost or degenerated in the common ancestor of crown Mysticeti through two shared single-base sites deletion in exon 4 and 5 of   ACPT among all living baleen whales.
8: DN/  dS values on transitional branches were used to estimate   ACPT inactivation records.
9: In the case of aardvark, inactivation of   ACPT was estimated at ~23.6028.32 Ma, which is earlier than oldest aardvark fossil record (  Orycteropus minutus, ~19 Ma), suggesting that   ACPT inactivation may result in degeneration or loss of enamel.
10: Conversely, the inactivation time of   ACPT estimated in armadillo (~10.1811.30 Ma) is later than oldest fossil record, suggesting that inactivation of   ACPT may result from degeneration or loss of enamel in these mammals.
11: Our findings suggested that different mechanisms of degeneration of tooth/enamel might exist among toothless and enamel-less lineages during evolution.
12: Our study further considered that   ACPT is a novel gene for studying tooth evolution.
