0: The electroneutral solute carrier family 12A (SLC12A) transport family encompasses several branches of homologous genes [ 1]; each of them encodes unique cation-chloride co-transporter (CCC).
1: The kidney Na-K-2Cl co-transporter (NKCC2), which is encoded by the SLC12A1 gene [ 2, 3], is expressed in the apical membrane of ascending limb of Henle epithelial cells (TAL) and the macula densa [ 4].
2: NKCC2 is the pacemaker of TAL sodium chloride reabsorption which accounts for 2030% of the filtered load of NaCl [ 1].
3: It plays therefore a pivotal role in urinary concentration and regulation of the blood pressure [ 1].
4: Given its high reuptake capacity, changes in NKCC2 transport activity can significantly alter renal NaCl reabsorption, leading eventually to disruption of the homoeostasis of salt and water handling [ 5, 6].
5: Such changes in NKCC2 activity may be associated to the co-transporter itself (i.e., gain or loss-of-function mutations) or to alterations in the regulatory pathways that control NKCC2 trafficking and activity [ 1, 7, 8, 9].
6: Indeed, loss of function mutations in  SLC12A1 can cause Bartter I syndrome, a rare genetic kidney disease marked by severe natriuresis with normal or low blood pressure, hypercalciuria, hyperparathyroidism, hypokalemia, and metabolic alkalosis [ 8, 10, 11].
7: Opposite to genetic inactivation of NKCC2, enhanced NKCC2 activity has been associated with salt-sensitive hypertension in animal models and in humans, in particular African-Americans [ 1, 12, 13, 14].
8: NKCC2 is the target of loop diuretics such as furosemide and bumetanide, commonly used to lower BP [ 15].
9: Moreover, a large genetic screening in participants of the Framingham Heart Study revealed that rare and subtle heterozygous mutations of the  SLC12A1 gene, protect against hypertension, further proving that factors regulating the activity of NKCC2 are key determinants of the control of BP in the general population [ 16, 17].
10: All of these data emphasize the important role of NKCC2 in electrolytes homeostasis and blood pressure control in normal physiology and in pathogenesis of Bartter syndrome.
11: Despite the major role of NKCC2 in the regulation of sodium balance and blood pressure, the underlying mechanisms and respective protein networks regulating its transport activity at the molecular level namely in its trafficking, targeting, and turnover remain largely unidentified.
