0: Despite these examples, variations in mechanisms of nuclear processes between organisms are well known.
1: For example, nuclear envelope morphology during mitosis is usually either distinctly open or closed but can be semi-closed in some species such as  Schizosaccharomyces japonicus [ 21].
2: These variations necessitate distinct mechanisms for segregation of nuclear components during division and reassembly.
3: Open mitosis likely arose on multiple occasions, while closed mitosis is probably the ancestral as evidenced by the broader distribution of this mode [ 22].
4: Further, the mechanisms by which chromosomes are segregated are highly variable.
5: While mitosis nearly exclusively requires a microtubule-based spindle, the location of the spindle anchor varies considerably, being at turns within the nucleus, embedded in the NE or in the cytoplasm [ 23].
6: Nuclear positioning and mechanotransduction, which in metazoa is mediated by the LINC complex, is also likely divergent; in vascular plants, there is a range of additional systems mediating cytoskeletal connections, while some organisms lack the LINC complex altogether [ 24, 25].
7: Moreover, the nuclear lamina, a fibrous network residing on the nucleoplasmic surface of the NE, is represented by several apparently diselected for investigation.
8: Givenstinct systems; NMCP/CRWN proteins of plants, lamins in many lineages including metazoa and NUP-1/2 of the kinetoplastida [ 2529].
9: So far, mammalian lamin orthologs have not been detected in yeasts, either experimentally [ 30] or  in silico [ 25].
10: However, in spite of lacking canonical lamins, yeast NPC components, nucleoporins and NE-associated proteins provide a platform for anchoring chromatin to the NE and for events related to gene expression regulation, transcription, mitosis and NE stability [ 3133].
11: Lamins are likely the ancestral lamina proteins while the more restricted plant and kinetoplastid systems appear to be lineage specific and likely later emerging [ 25].
12: Finally, the kinetochore in kinetoplastids is composed of a distinct set of proteins differentiating these organisms from all other eukaryotes [ 34, 35].
