0: In the current study, high throughput RNA sequencing was used to quantify genome-wide DCVC-induced differential gene expression in two different first trimester placental models in vitro.
1: The HTR-8/SVneo cells, with an extravillous trophoblast phenotype, were used to evaluate transcriptional responses in this specific critical cell type.
2: Villous explants from first trimester placentae were used to evaluate transcriptional responses in intact villi tissue with multiple interacting cell types, including extravillous trophoblasts.
3: Both of these placental models have been used extensively to study placental biology and pathophysiology (Huckle  2017; Orendi et al.
4: 2011) and to study the effect of xenobiotics on the placenta (Kovo and Golan  2008).
5: Subsequently, gene set enrichment testing was used to identify biological pathways and/or processes targeted by DCVC and re-evaluate previously identified pathways.
6: The most notable pathway identified was the endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response (UPR), a cellular response designed to rid cells of accumulated misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER).
7: Upon further characterization of genes enriched in this pathway, the specific involvement of the integrated stress response (ISR), a condition triggered by the UPR and other stress stimuli, was revealed (Pakos-Zebrucka et al.
8: 2016).
9: Because the ISR is characterized by eIF2 phosphorylation, causing protein synthesis restriction and selective activation of transcription factor 4 (ATF4)-mediated upregulation of amino acid biosynthesis and transport genes (Pakos-Zebrucka et al.
10: 2016), additional experiments were conducted to confirm ISR activation by measuring global protein synthesis, phosphorylation levels of eIF2 and protein concentrations of ATF4 as key regulators of ISR activation.
11: Lastly, cell cycle progression and proliferation were determined in the cell model to evaluate functional consequences of DCVC treatment and ensure no acute cellular toxicity.
