0: Selenium (Se) has many effects on the growth and development of plants.
1: It regulates photosynthesis, respiration, enhances stress resistance, and attenuates the damage of free radicals, while also mitigating the toxic effects of heavy metals [ 1, 2, 3].
2: The absorption and accretion of Se by various plants varies greatly.
3: Cruciferous plants have a relatively strong ability to accumulate Se, followed by legumes and then cereals [ 4].
4: The Se enrichment of crop plant mainly focuses on two aspects: one is to improve the Se content in plants during physiological cultivation by fertilization; the other is to acclimatize and breed the Se-enriched parents.
5: Foliar Se application, soil treatment and seed dressing methods can be deployed to enrich plants with Se.
6: However, each method has its own restrictions.
7: Soil is the main source of nutrition in plants, as far as Se application in soil is concerned.
8: A number of methods are implemented to enrich plants with Se (i.e., soil Se treatment, seed dressing and foliar Se fertilization).
9: The effectiveness in Se absorption by rice can be distorted by many factors, such as Se content in the soil, Se forms, alkalinity/acidity of soil, and metal-ion interaction [ 5, 6, 7].
10: However, the success rate by the seed dressing Se application method is limited, and dosage is difficult to control.
11: Moreover, this method found a significant difference in Se distribution in the various organs of rice plants, and relatively low Se content in rice grains [ 8].
12: The fertilizer efficiency by foliar spray method is shortit cannot be applied in rainy or windy conditions.
13: It also results in easy leaching by rainwater, leading to contamination of the surrounding environment.
14: Moreover, the amount of foliar spray is difficult to control, and it is quickly lost from the surface of hydrophobic leaves.
15: As it is difficult to transfer the sprayed element from the absorption site of the leaf to other parts of the plant, the spraying effects are rather poor.
16: In addition, over-spraying of Se may result in poisoning of the plant.
17: These are the obstacles that rice breeders face when they attempt Se-enrichment of their plants.
18: About half of the worlds population consumes rice ( Oryza sativa L.) as a staple food.
19: Thus, its biofortification by means of breeding is a long-lasting and comparatively riskless process.
20: Rice genome is sequenced and studied more than other crops [ 9].
21: In addition, the molecular mechanism of Se-enrichment in rice is unclear.
22: However, there are limited studies on differential proteinic expression in crop plants with response to Se.
23: Therefore, the need of the hour is to assess the natural proteinic response of rice towards Se-enrichment and to compare it with non-Se food.
