0: Usually, these methods take as input two or multiple gene expression datasets that the user wishes to compare, and give as output either a network of dysregulated connections (global network approach), a list of genes belonging to a dysregulated module (module-based approach) or a ranking of dysregulated nodes (single-gene approach).
1: The dcanr package [ 103], implementing 11 different global network differential co-expression approaches, is particularly handy and well documented.
2: An example of the kind of output obtained through this tool is shown in  Figure 4, where the genes most significantly increasing their co-expression between normal breast and breast tumours in the TCGA (The Cancer Genome Atlas) cohort, identified via the z-score algorithm [ 61], are represented in a network with Cytoscape [ 101] ( Figure 4A).
3: Statistics on a networks properties indicate overall differences in connectivity between the two conditions, showing that the differential network follows a power law, with a few genes having many connections and many genes having a few connections ( Figure 4B).
4: This network can be further dissected to gain module- and gene-level information through gene clustering and node-level statistics obtained, for example, with the igraph R package [ 104].
5: Modules can then be studied through functional enrichment with tools such as clusterProfiler [ 105] ( Figure 4C).
6: In this case, four modules with at least 20 nodes are detected, and the two largest modules show enrichment for immune-related and extracellular matrix/angiogenesis Gene Ontology categories, respectively.
7: Alternatively, modules can be found via methods explicitly designed for differential modules detection, such as DiffCoex, which builds upon the widely used gene co-expression reconstruction method WGCNA (Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis) [ 106].
8: DiffCoex, also implemented in the dcanr package, takes as input two expression matrices (e.g., normal and tumour) and identifies differentially co-expressed modules via the clustering of genes based on correlation differences across conditions.
9: Finally, differential edges displaying the strongest change in correlation can be selected from the whole differential co-expression network in a gene-specific perspective ( Figure 4D).
10: In this example, LZTS1, having 54 edges, is the top differentially connected gene, followed by PODNL1 ( Figure 4A), and it shows a strong change in relationship with its network neighbor LAMA4, switching from negative to positive correlation in normal tissue and breast tumour, respectively ( Figure 4D).
