0: X-ray diffraction (XRD, Cu-K radiation,  = 1.542 A, Bruker D8 ADVANCE, Bruker AXS GmbH, Karlsruhe, Germany) was used to determine the phase of the ceramics pellets at room temperature within 1060 C with steps of 5 C/min.
1: Jade Software was used to match and analyze the phase of the sample.
2: The relative density of ceramics was measured by Archimedes method and deionized water was used as the immersion medium.
3: Meanwhile, the theoretical density of LLZNO, calculated by the Jade Software, was 5.20 g/cm 3, and the relative density was the measured density divided by the theoretical density.
4: The particle size and distribution of the powder were determined by the laser diffraction particle-size test method (LD, Mastersizer 3000, Malvern Instruments Limited, Malvern, UK), and the relative density, refractive index, and absorption rate of the LLZNO powder was 5.20 g/cm 3, 1.4, and 0.1, respectively.
5: The microtopography of the submicron LLZNO powder and cross section of the ceramic pellets was observed by scanning electron microscope (SEM, TESCAN MIRA3 LMU, TESCAN Orsay Holding, a. s., Brno, Czech Republic).
6: Energy dispersive spectrometer (Oxford X-ray Max20, Oxford Instruments plc, Oxford, UK) mapping was used to characterize the distribution of each element in the cross section of the ceramic pellets.
7: The total lithium ion conductivity of the ceramic pellets was measured by an Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy (EIS, Gamry Reference 600+, Gamry Instruments, Warminster, PA, USA) within a temperature range of 2580 C, within the frequency of 10 Hz5 MHz, and with an AC amplitude of 40 mV.
8: The blocking electrode was uniformly coated by a thin silver layer on both sides of the ceramic pellets.
9: The activation energy of the ceramic pellets was measured within a temperature range of 2580 C and calculated based on the Arrhenius equation [ 16].
10: The quasi-solid-state batteries were tested under the battery chargedischarge tester (BTS-5V3A, Neware Technology Co., Ltd., Shenzhen, China) at 25 C, and current density was 0.02 mA/cm 2.
