0: The variation in transcriptome dynamics among different panicle type cultivars, showing evidence for a co-ordinated action of ethylene and IAA is explicit 18, but lacks consolidation conceptually to identify genetic factors involved in the spikelet specific grain filling/endosperm starch biosynthesis of rice panicle.
1: It is possible that ethylene becomes a retrograde signal for endosperm starch biosynthesis 10 by default expression of the genome for which epigenetic factors are responsible.
2: Epigenetic factors like miRNAs control expression level of their target genes negatively 19 through either pre-transcriptional modification by DNA-methylation or post-transcriptional alteration by cleavage or translational suppression of target mRNAs.
3: Recently, there has been a plethora of studies conducted to isolate the epigenetic factors, especially the miRNAs expressing differently between the superior and inferior spikelets during grain development 20.
4: These differentially expressed miRNAs possibly participate in control of hormone metabolism, carbohydrate metabolic pathways and cell division of the developing kernels and difference in function and expression levels of the miRNAs determine the quantum of grain filling of the spikelets.
5: To study the expression pattern during grain development, miRNAs from all growth stages were sequenced and novel miRNAs involved in the process have been identified 21.
6: Peng et al.
7: 22 analysed 457 known and 13 novel miRNAs and showed differential expression of 141 known miRNAs between superior verses inferior spikelets with higher level of expression associated in most of the cases in the former than in the latter.
8: The genes targeted by these differentially expressed miRNAs were linked to signalling pathways of plant hormone homeostasis and starch synthesis during the storage phase of grain development; precisely day 10 after anthesis and onwards.
9: However, information is scant on the precise role of the miRNAs in genome dynamics regulating target mRNA expression for hormone homeostasis during early part of caryopsis development, when ethylene-induced endosperm morbidity underscores grain development of failing spikelets of rice panicle in spite of advancement of test of small RNA sequencing repeatability of rice 23.
10: In our committed pursuit 9 to unravel expression of genes encoding ethylene signal that infringe grain development of spikelets disadvantaged for their orientation in time and space on the panicle architecture of rice during the first 10 days after anthesis, the role of some of the miRNAs known or unknown so long have been investigated.
11: Early part of grain development period provides license for fixing the cell number of endosperm and ultimate size of grain at maturity 16.
12: An experiment has been designed accordingly in a narrow genetic window to test the concept using recombinant inbred lines of rice contrasting for panicle grain number and fertility.
13: To understand the differential pattern of regulatory network that co-ordinates gene expression programs and finalize developmental plasticity for grain filling between the contrasting spikelet types, dynamic variation of the miRNAs controlling expression of target genes specific to ethylene or auxin pathways have been selected for exploration.
