0: Programmed cell deaths (PCDs) are a group of diversified processes that are triggered by stress or developmental events, occurring in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes 1  4.
1: The main phenomenon are associated to the activation of complex molecular pathways that lead to membrane depolarization, DNA fragmentation and breakdown of the plasma membrane 1.
2: Specific events involving translation processes during PCD have also been reported.
3: In  Homo sapiens, it has been shown that, during apoptosis, there is a reduction in cap-dependent translation, because of the cap cleavage by caspase 3, or by changes in the phosphorylation state of canonical initiation factors (including eIF4G, eIF4B, eIF4EBP1, and eIF2) 5,  6.
4: In addition, certain mRNAs, coding for proteins that are essential to the apoptotic process (including Apaf-1 5 and c-Myc 7), are translated by the recognition of the internal ribosome entry site (IRES).
5: In  Caenorhabditis elegans changes in protein synthesis act as a physiological signal to initiate cell death in germ cells.
6: In particular, a modification of the balance between the two eIF4G isoforms (the long and the short ones) disrupts cap-dependent mRNA translation in favor of a cap-independent mechanism.
7: Indeed, the depletion of the long eIF4G isoform promotes the cap-independent translation, inducing the translation of pro-apoptotic proteins 8.
8: Lastly, in  Drosophila melanogaster, the pro-apoptotic protein Reaper binds specifically the 40S subunit, affecting the AUG recognition, thereby inhibiting cap-dependent translation 9, and facilitating the selective translation of specific pro-apoptotic mRNAs thanks to the recognition of IRES segments 10.
9: Interestingly, the involvement of the translational machinery in  Escherichia coli PCD has been clearly described by the MazEF module 11, in the toxinantitoxin system.
10: Stress conditions (like amino acid starvation, exposure to antibiotics, DNA damage and phage infection, overproduction of ppGpp 12) reduce MazE levels in the cell, favoring the release of the MazF toxin 13.
11: This endoribonuclease can produce leaderless mRNAs 14 and modify 16S rRNA structure in the ribosomes, producing the stress ribosomes 15  17.
12: These events dramatically affect the overall translational process 18, determining the parallel production of death (ClpP, SlyD, YfiD, ElaC, YgcR, and YfbU) and of survival (YajQ, RsuA, and DeoC) proteins, promoting a higher propensity to cell death 19.
