0: Preterm birth (PTB), defined as delivery before 37 completed weeks of gestation, occurs in more than one of 10 babies, and approximately one million children die each year because of complications related to PTB [ 1].
1: Moreover, prematurity is a huge burden on the healthcare system because of long-term morbidities, such as neurodevelopmental disability as well as immediate complications of prematurity related to organ system immaturity [ 2 4].
2: One factor leading to preterm delivery is cervical insufficiency (CI), which is characterized by spontaneous dilation and effacement of the cervix in the absence of painful uterine contractions in the mid-trimester, leading to bulging fetal membranes, premature rupture of the membranes, and, ultimately, expulsion of an immature fetus [ 5].
3: CI occurs in approximately 0.51% of all pregnancies and is associated with 515% of pregnancy losses in the second trimester or extremely PTBs (< 28 weeks) [ 6,  7].
4: Although multiple factors, such as cervical instrumentation (e.g., loop electrosurgical excision procedure, dilation and curettage, cold-knife conization, and hysteroscopy), cervical laceration or obstetric injury, collagen disorders (e.g., Ehlers-Danlos), and in utero exposure to diethylstilbestrol, are associated with CI, its etiopathogenesis remains unknown [ 8].
5: Thus, CI is diagnosed based on either a classic past obstetric history (2 successive prior second- or early third trimester pregnancy losses without preceding uterine contractions) or a combination of obstetric history and measurement of cervical length ) [ 9].
6: Moreover, laboratory tests or useful biomarkers for diagnosis or prediction of CI are not available.
7: Cervical cerclage is the treatment of choice for patients with CI; however, the guidelines for determining whether to perform cerclage differ, and even post-cerclage, and there are limitations to predicting the pregnancy outcomes [ 10].
8: Thus, identifying gene expression profiles and biological pathways relevant to CI may reveal potential biomarkers or therapeutic targets for CI.
9: RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) is a technique which uses next-generation sequencing to allow comprehensive transcriptome analyses of genomes [ 11 13].
10: Compared to microarrays, RNA-Seq enables non-biased, probe-independent inspection of gene expression data.
11: Therefore, we compared the transcriptomic profile of patients with CI and that of normal controls using RNA-Seq to identify the distinctive gene expression profile in CI.
12: We also examined whether genes were differentially expressed according to the outcomes of pregnancy in women with CI.
