0: Objective:The aim of this study is to determine the phytochemical composition, antifungal activity of    Mentha piperita essential oil (MPE) against    Fusarium sporotrichioides.
1: Methods:The phytochemical composition was conducted by gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC MS) analysis and mycelia growth inhibition was determined by minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and minimum fungicidal concentration (MFC), the morphological characterization was observed by scanning electron microscopy.
2: Finally, the membrane permeability was determined by the release of extracellular constituents, pH, and total lipid content.Result:In GC MS analysis, 22 metabolites were identified such as menthol, l menthone, pulegone, piperitone, caryophyllene, menthol acetate, etc.
3: The antifungal activity against targeted pathogen, with MIC and MFC 500 g/mL and 1000 g/mL, respectively.
4: The MPE altered the morphology of    F. sporotrichoides hyphae with the loss of cytoplasm content and contorted the mycelia.
5: The increasing concentration of MPE showed increase in membrane permeability of    F. sporotrichoides as evidenced by the release of extracellular constituents and pH with the disruption of cell membrane indicating decrease in lipid content of    F. sporotrichoides.
6: Conclusion:The observed results showed that MPE exhibited promising new antifungal agent against    Fusarium sporotrichioides.
7: SUMMARYF.
8: sporotrichioides, filamentous fungi contaminate to corn and corn--based products     F. sporotrichioides mainly responsible for the production of T-2 toxin     Phytochemical composition was conducted by gas chromatography--mass spectrometry analysisMentha piperita essential oil (MPE) is commonly known as peppermint     The       F. sporotrichioides growth was inhibited by MPE (minimum inhibitory concentration, minimum fungicidal concentration)     Morphological observation by scanning electron microscope.Abbreviations Used: Cfu: Colony forming unit; DMSO: Dimethyl sulfoxide, C: Degree celsius;    F. Sporotrichoides:    Fusarium sporotrichioides; EOs: Essential oils; M: Molar, g: Gram/gravity, mg: Milligram; g: Microgram, ml: Milliliter; mm: Millimeter, min: Minutes;    M. piperita:    Mentha piperita, MIC: Minimum inhibitory concentration; MFC: Minimum fungicidal concentration; MAE:    Mentha arvensis essential oil; Na   2SO   4: Sodium sulfate; pH: Potential Hydrogen; PDB: Potato Dextrose Broth; SEM: Scanning electron microscope
