0: Staging AD and PD-associated neuropathological hallmarks has been essential to understand both disorders progression and to understand their pathological processes 1,  2.
1: The pathological process in PD involves the intraneuronal accumulation of inclusion bodies, named Lewy bodies (LBs), composed of aggregates of -synuclein (SNCA), ubiquitin and other proteins, found in the cytoplasm of neurons, often near the nucleus, or Lewy neuritis found in axons and dendrites 3,  4.
2: Though, neurodegeneration occurs initially in the  substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc), a widespread neuronal loss in the other brain areas is also observed 1.
3: While the etiology of dopaminergic neuronal death is still difficult to understand mounting evidence implicate mitochondrial impairment and oxidative damage leading to axonal transport alterations and abnormal protein accumulation as key molecular mechanisms affecting the normal function of dopaminergic neurons 5.
4: The most prominent histopathological marks of AD are the presence of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), composed of filamentous aggregates called paired helical filaments (PHF) of hyperphosphorylated protein tau, frequently conjugated to ubiquitin, in cell bodies, neurophil threads in neuronal processes and neuritic (senile) plaques, which are extracellular deposits largely composed of fibrillar beta-amyloid (A) peptides, usually seen in around dystrophic neurites 6,  7.
5: AD is associated with neuronal loss, progressive synaptic and mitochondrial dysfunction, accompanied by the deposition of A peptides and abnormal tau protein 7.
6: These hallmarks have been used as diagnostic criteria for the disease 2, but whether they are causes of AD or merely consequences is yet unknown.
7: In addition to the established pathology of senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, the presence of extensive oxidative stress is well characterized in AD brains 8.
8: Moreover,  post-mortem studies in AD patients brains reveal disrupted mitochondrial  cristae, reduced mitochondrial density and swelling, as well as, mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) deletions 9.
9: In fact, accumulating evidence suggests that neuronal mitochondrial dysfunction affecting the energy supply of the cell, axonal traffic and autophagy induce AD characteristic synapse loss in the neocortex and hippocampus 10.
10: Vascular dementia (VD) is considered the second most common cause of cognitive impairment in the elderly population after AD with memory and cognitive function impairment as a consequence of reduced blood flow to the brain 11.
11: The heterogeneity of this disease makes it challenging to elucidate the underlying mechanisms and neuropathology.
12: VD has been considered to be clinically distinctive from AD, however there are a number of similarities between these two disorders, specifically A deposition 12.
13: Regarding VD pathophysiology, abnormal energy metabolism together with oxidative stress and reactive nitrogen species generation are known to contribute to cognitive impairments in VD culminating in hemodynamic abnormalities and neurovascular damage 13.
