0: Hyaluronan (HA), a large extracellular glycosaminoglycan comprised of repetitive glucuronic acid and N-Acetylglucoasamine (GlcUA-GlcNAc) disaccharides, is ubiquitous in vertebrate tissues.
1: Approximately half of the total body HA content is in the skin under physiologic conditions, both in the dermis, where it is primarily produced by dermal fibroblasts, and in the epidermis, with the proliferating basal regions containing the majority (Tammi et al.
2: 1988; Fraser et al.
3: 1997; Papakonstantinou et al.
4: 2012).
5: In unwounded skin and in both normal and keloid scars, the dermis, particularly the papillary dermis, has repeatedly been shown to contain much higher levels of HA than the epidermis, where HA appears to be produced micro-locally by synthases specific to each layer (Meyer et al.
6: 2000).
7: Congruent with that, and despite the physical proximity of dermis and epidermis, HA appears to have a distinct function in each location.
8: Epidermal HA is generally considered the source of skin hydration, while dermal HA appears to provide structural integrity in conjunction with collagen and elastic fibers.
9: In addition to these location-specific roles, the HA-rich extracellular matrix plays a myriad of homeostatic roles in the skin as a whole, including barrier function and the regulation of growth factors, cytokines, and signaling essential for cellular proliferation, immunity, and wound healing (Day and de la Motte  2005).
10: However, many chronic and inflammatory dermatitides are associated with pathologic tissue remodeling accompanied by elevated levels of HA, with perhaps the most notable being keloid scarring (Meyer et al.
11: 2000).
12: Additionally, HA has become increasingly recognized as an active contributor to cancer-promoting processes, like metastasis in melanoma (Toole et al.
13: 2002).
14: As HA is synthesized locally, extruding out of its parent cell directly into the extracellular space, a modality of skin-specific inhibition of HA synthesis would be a novel and advantageous tool for research of its role in physiologic wound healing and homeostasis, as well as its role in pathologic disease progression and treatment of these and other diseases such as lymphedema (Meyer et al.
15: 2000).
