0: Peritoneal dialysis (PD) is a treatment for patients with severe chronic kidney disease such as renal failure or renal insufficiency.
1: The process uses the patient's peritoneum in the abdomen or coelom as a membrane across which fluids and dissolved substances (electrolytes, urea, glucose, proteins, and other small molecules) are exchanged between the blood and the peritoneal fluid (to which a high-glucose solution has been infused) [ 1].
2: PD is today an increasingly accepted modality of renal replacement therapy.
3: The problem with this therapy is that, upon prolonged treatment, peritoneal fibrosis with subsequent loss of ultrafiltration (UF) ability and fluid overload could occur, which will result in the necessity of discontinuation of PD.
4: An additional problem would be also the onset of peritonitis, which might occur upon prolonged treatment [ 2].
5: Recurrent peritonitis and bioincompatibility of the peritoneal dialysate (e.g., high blood glucose, high osmolality, acidic pH, and elevated glucose degradation products) are the leading mechanisms attributed to peritoneal fibrosis [ 3].
6: Increasing levels of the dialysate/plasma creatinine ratio (D/P Cr) on the peritoneal equilibrium test (PET) indirectly reflect possible peritoneal fibrosis-related UF failure [ 4].
7: So far, invasive peritoneal biopsy is the only method in current daily practice which can provide both definite evidence and prediction of peritoneal fibrosis.
8: Therefore, a noninvasive diagnostic method is urgently needed.
9: Several studies have been focused on the analysis of spent dialysate composition, including biochemistry profiles [ 5], cytokines [ 6], or proteomics [ 7,  8].
10: Among these, proteins are the final biological factors for performing biochemical reactions and physiological responses.
11: Several studies have reported the unique proteomic profiling of pleural effusion [ 9,  10] or urine [ 11,  12].
12: Analyzing proteomic presentation of the dialysate may provide clues for both understanding the mechanisms of peritoneal damages and noninvasively predicting the changes of peritoneal transport characters.
13: Brauner et al.
14: reported that the increased amount of novel protein (daintain/allograft inflammatory factor-1, AIF-1) is detected during the early stage of PD initiation and peritonitis [ 13].
15: Another study also reported that the elevation of vitamin D-binding protein, haptoglobin, and  -2 microglobulin was noted in the diabetes mellitus (DM) dialysate [ 14].
16: Furthermore, the target proteomic changes may function as novel biomarkers for disease monitoring or detection in vitro.
