0: In the present work, an alternative method for fabricating Li-ion electrodes inspired of the paper-making process is proposed.
1: The use of aluminum/copper current collectors, costly binders, and harmful solvents (NMP) are avoided in this fabrication method.
2: These are replaced with non-modified cellulose, which is an abundant, natural, and low-cost polymer.
3: The simple and rapid process is easily scalable and only uses water as solvent to prepare a suspension composed of redox active material, conductive carbon, and cellulose fibers.
4: After successive filtrations, a self-standing electrode film is formed.
5: It is made of an approximately 20-m thick strong carbon current collector over which the electrode composite (cathode/anode material and carbon) is deposited.
6: Water-soluble carbons and LFP are also produced to reduce the preparation time and facilitate the dispersion of electrode materials in water.
7: The better repartition of these carbons in the electrode results in an improved electrochemical performance.
8: Flexible LFP, PTCDA, graphite, and LTO electrodes with good mechanical resistance are obtained.
9: The electrodes remain intact after punching, cycling, and opening of cells.
10: The electrochemical performances of auto-supported electrodes are similar to those generally reported for LFP, PTCDA, graphite, and LTO casted on metal current collectors according to the conventional doctor blade casting method.
11: The results of long cycling experiments conducted on full LFP/LTO and LFP/graphite batteries indicate that these cells have a remarkably good stability with high specific capacities.
12: An all-organic prototype PTCDA/graphite battery without a transition metal is prepared and electrochemically tested.
13: It is among the first self-standing batteries composed of organic redox molecules and biodegradable components reported in literature.
14: Although the discharge capacity is relatively low, and the cyclability is not considerably stable, the concept of a battery that is both inexpensive and biodegradable is demonstrated.
15: Further experiments, such as the optimization of the balance between cathode and anode masses and anode prelithiation, will be planned to achieve the fabrication of a full organic battery with a stable capacity of approximately 120 mAhg 1.
16: Moreover, organic cathode materials with a higher redox potential or higher specific capacity (e.g., 2,3-diamino-1,4-naphthoquinone (250 mAhg 1)) 79 will be tested.
17: In continuing this project, efforts will be focused on recycling electrodes that utilize a green process.
18: A second-life battery made of recycled materials will be assembled and tested.
