0: The demand for lithium ion batteries (LIBs) has increased exponentially since their commercialization 30 years ago.
1: Worldwide sales of LIBs increased to the energy equivalent of 120,000 MWh in 2017 [ 1], which corresponded to the annual energy consumption of approximately 6000 houses considering the average annual energy consumption of 20.3 MWh.
2: (Data source: Statistics Canada; Average household energy consumption for the Province of Quebec in 2015) [ 2].
3: Accordingly, the increasing popularity and use of LIBs led to an increase in the amount of spent batteries that have to be managed.
4: This hazardous waste has to be treated appropriately and kept away from the standard household waste collection streams to avoid the possible release of toxic compounds in the environment during landfill or incineration [ 3, 4] and to prevent fire hazards in municipal solid waste (MSW) facilities and transport equipment caused by battery self-ignition [ 5].
5: Recycling spent LIBs promotes the recovery of valuable metals while neutralizing hazardous compounds, such as toxic metals, organic solvents, and fluorinated electrolyte [ 6]; it also diverts a significant amount of waste from the MSW management system.
6: The recovered materials after proper purification/refining could be reused as components for manufacturing new batteries, hence closing the circular economy loop.
7: However, LIB recycling processes are costly and require considerable amounts of energy [ 7] or reagents.
8: Well-established battery recycling plants such as Umicore, one of the largest recyclers in Europe, revealed that the profits from selling recovered metals are not major drivers for [their] recycling operation and that they charge service fees to battery manufacturers or collectors [ 8].
9: In addition, recycling generates secondary toxic gaseous emissions and solid waste residue and may also release contaminants to water effluents.
10: All these potential pollution sources have to be properly managed [ 9].
11: Moreover, most current pyrometallurgical processes do not recover Li, which is a critical resource that requires sustainable exploitation [ 4, 10, 11, 12, 13].
12: Therefore, the development of new approaches based on hydrometallurgical or electrometallurgical techniques is essential for reducing the environmental footprint, increasing process efficiency, and improving the profitability of LIB recycling.
13: Several researchers have developed alternative chemical treatment methods and have reported good recovery rates and reduced hazardous gas emissions.
14: However, such methods still require the use of expensive reagents and considerable amounts of water [ 4].
15: Conversely, other new selective and non-destructive methods opened the possibility for regenerating the electroactive materials, which could subsequently be directly reused for manufacturing new LIBs.
16: This low-cost approach, referred to as direct recycling, could result in value-added products, but could be sensitive to many parameters, such as battery sorting, extensive pretreatment, the accumulation of defects and impurities in the active materials, variations in cell composition, and battery state-of-health.
17: Moreover, because it was designed for specific battery types, direct recycling could be more sensitive to market variations and the evolution of new battery chemistries.
