0: This paper reviews the hydrometallurgical and direct recycling processes for Co-, Ni-, and Mn-rich batteries developed to date, but also emphasizes the treatment processes for lithium-iron phosphate (LFP) electrodes.
1: This type of LIB, which was developed by John Goodenough in the late 1990s and has been commercialized since 2006, has not raised the same interest for recycling as the other LIBs.
2: The low value of the elements comprising the active material of LFP electrodes makes its recycling hardly economical.
3: However, the toxicity, environmental risk, and sustainability considerations require the development of suitable treatments for these batteries as well.
4: In the first section of this review, we provide a description of LIBs and key resources to achieve an in depth understanding, and also the typical cycling criteria for the five major LIB chemistries.
5: In the second section, the pertinence of LIB recycling is discussed using life-cycle analysis (LCA) as supporting data.
6: Then, various recycling approaches are defined, and the graphic concept of circular economy specifically applied to LIBs is presented.
7: This is followed by the description of the current industrial applications of LIB recycling worldwide.
8: In addition, some pretreatment processes are described prior to exhaustively reviewing the hydrometallurgical processes developed to date.
9: As such, topics including battery sorting, current collector separation, binder removal, and carbon recovery are presented.
10: The subsequent hydrometallurgical section is divided according to the type of leaching agents, namely, H 2SO 4, HCl, and HNO 3, and also other inorganic and organic acids.
11: Each subsection provides a critical review of the processes developed so far, major chemical reactions involved, and typical flow charts.
12: Considering the significant number of publications that we reviewed, the information for each process is summarized in large tables supplied in the  Supplementary Information section.
13: Furthermore, another section is dedicated to direct recycling techniques.
14: Again, a table summarizing these processes is provided in the  Supplementary Information.
15: Lastly, the challenges and opportunities of the LIB recycling industry are discussed.
