0: Several histological techniques that allow analysis of the content and structure of articular cartilage and meniscus exist, such as immunohistochemistry, autoradiography or various types of tissue staining, e.g.
1: haematoxylin and eosin staining [ 7].
2: However, the majority of these methods only provide information about macromolecular structures in the tissue or allow single-protein detection and analysis.
3: During the last decades, new techniques, such as mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics, have allowed a more comprehensive analysis of a wide variety of tissues including cartilage tissues [ 8].
4: MS coupled with liquid chromatography (LC) has become one of the most common methods to analyse protein content in complex samples.
5: With non-targeted MS it is possible to identify several hundreds of proteins, even thousands, in one analysis [ 9,  10].
6: In the most commonly used approach in MS, called the bottom-up approach, proteins are digested into peptides, and the peptides are then separated by LC followed by ionization, separation and detection in the mass spectrometer and the resulting spectra are compared with theoretical spectra generated from a sequence database [ 11].
7: However, not all ions are selected for separation and subsequent detection.
8: In data-dependent acquisition (DDA) mode, a selection of certain precursor ions is performed based on predefined criteria, e.g.
9: the top  n most intense ions identified in the first mass separation step (MS1) [ 12].
10: This is compared to data-independent acquisition (DIA), where all precursor ions within a certain mass-to-charge ratio (m/z) range (larger windows of 20-25 Da width) are selected for fragmentation and the second mass analysis step (MS2) [ 9,  13].
11: Even though DIA has become increasingly utilised, DDA still is the preferred MS method.
12: Thus, our aim was to compare human menisci with human articular cartilage using both DDA and DIA to identify biological differences and select the best methodological approach for future studies.
