0: In plants, the stem is initiated at shoot apical meristem (SAM) and in the case of seed plants, it is originated from the sub-apical region (called rib zone, RZ) of SAM [ 11].
1: Additionally, the monocot stem elongation is promoted by intercalary meristems (IM).
2: Both RZ and IMs are the main sites where stem growth starts under GA stimuli [ 3].
3: GA degrades DELLA proteins and stimulates the cell division in RZ zone.
4: DELLAs, the proteins controlling cell division in the stem, are functionally associated with transcription factors (TFs) e.g.
5: DELLAs bind and inhibit the activity of class 1 teosinte branched 1 (TCP), cycloidea, and proliferating cell factor TFs, which further activates other genes associated with cell cycle progression in stem [ 12].
6: Recent studies have highlighted the direct link of DELLAs and cell prolification in RZ, which not only influences stem elongation but also the SAM size.
7: Other than DELLAs, organ boundary genes such as lateral organ boundaries (LOB) domain-containing genes, have also been implicated in stem elongation by restricting signals that control stem elongation [ 13].
8: The establishment of vascular pattern in the early stages of stem development is a key stage and is under the influence of auxin flow.
9: In this regard, the role of auxin efflux carrier proteins has been associated with the cell elongation in root epidermal cells but such a role in stem elongation has not been explored yet [ 14].
10: After the initial growth based on cell prolification, cell expansion comes into action for internode growth.
11: Stem growth is adjusted to changeable conditions by the rapid differential growth.
12: For cell prolification as well as expansion, the prominent role of cell-wall related genes is also an important consideration.
13: Finally, the coordination between tissue layers through signaling also plays an important role during stem elongation.
14: The role of auxin in BR production and synthesis as well as the signaling between BR and very long-chain fatty acids in the epidermis are good examples [ 15,  16].
