0: Over the past decade, flexible electronics 1,  2 have undergone rapid developments in the fields of wearable 3,  4 and implantable devices 5, flexible displays 6, and even flexible radio frequency identification tags 7.
1: Li-ion battery is the most developed energy supply technology that satisfies high demands in energy, power, and long cycle life 8,  9.
2: For these reasons, flexible Li-ion batteries have gained particular attention as a future energy storage solution for lightweight and flexible devices 10,  11.
3: The widely used method for fabricating Li-ion electrodes (i.e., web-coating method), however, is unable to adequately satisfy these requirements 12.
4: In fact, Cu and Al metal foils, which are generally used as current collector and support to spread the cathode or anode ink, lose contact with the active material during repeated bending 13.
5: Moreover, the conventional method usually employs costly binders (such as polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF)) that are dissolved in solvents (e.g., N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP)), which are characterized by high toxicity 14.
6: Drying such electrodes also consumes a significant amount of energy because of their high boiling point (204.3 C) and low vapor pressure (e.g., 1 mm Hg at 40 C for NMP) 15.
7: A greener process that employs sodium carboxymethyl cellulose as a low-cost binder and water as solvent has been reported 16  18; however, some major problems have to be resolved.
8: Water-based electrodes exhibit agglomeration effects, poor ink homogeneity, and residual moisture after drying, which considerably reduce the cycle life of the battery 19.
9: According to the cost modeling proposed by Wood  et al.
10: 20, the composite electrode materials and current collectors account for practically 50% of the cost of a Li-ion battery.
11: Furthermore, to avoid corrosion problems that result from contact with electrolytes 21, the use of a current collector, especially an Al foil, significantly reduces the batterys energy density.
12: For instance, the Al current collector represents 40% of the total mass of an LFP electrode with an active material loading of approximately 6 mgcm 2.
