0: To resolve the foregoing problems, free-standing electrode films are proposed as a low-cost alternative to fabricate flexible Li-ion electrodes.
1: Free-standing films are generally fabricated according to a paper-making process that is well-known and appropriate for producing substantial amounts of electrodes.
2: Recently, paper 10, textile 22, and other organic substrates 23  25 are reported to be potential components for flexible electrodes because of their good flexibility; however, they cannot be used alone because of their poor electronic conductivity.
3: In view this, self-standing films made of two-dimensional (2D) or unidimensional (1D) carbons have been developed in parallel.
4: These afford a high electronic conductivity and a strong network mainly because of the -stacking effect (2D carbon) or the interlacing of carbon fibers (1D carbon).
5: For instance, flexible LFP and LTO electrodes made of graphene as a 2D carbon are reported by Shi  et al.
6: 26.
7: Alternatively, the use of 1D carbons, such as carbon nanotubes (CNT) or vapor-grown carbon fibers (VGCF) is also proposed to generate a solid 3D network in which the porosity is filled with redox active materials 27,  28.
8: The cost of such electrodes, however, limits the scale-up of this fabrication method.
9: To maintain good electronic conductivity without affecting film integrity, a mixture of cellulose fibers with 2D or 1D carbons are often reported in literature as a less expensive option for fabricating self-standing electrode films.
10: Cornell  et al.
11: fabricated an LFP composite electrode made of 1D polyacrylonitrile carbon fibers (CF) and TEMPO-oxidized cellulose nanofibrils as binder 29.
12: The electrode exhibits a high Youngs modulus of approximately 20112.7 MPa and an electrical conductivity of 95Scm 1; it delivers ~121 mAhg 1 when cycled at C/10 versus a self-standing CF electrode.
13: In another study, an LFP free-standing flexible composite electrode was prepared by the vacuum filtration method with 2D graphene and nanofibrillated cellulose additives 30.
14: Interestingly, the paper-making process also allowed the electrodes (cathode and anode) and the separator to be integrated into a single flexible and strong structure resulting from successive filtration steps 31.
15: Numerous examples of cathodes (LFP 29,  32), anodes (MoS 233, graphite 34, Si 35), and even full Li-ion cells (LFP/graphite 31, LFP/LTO 36) have been successfully prepared through the paper-making process using different forms of cellulose as binder.
16: Finally, several works have reported flexible electrodes for batteries and supercapacitors that employ cellulose as substrate 37  39 or binder 40,  41.
17: Most fabrication methods, however, still involve the use of organic solvents, synthetic binders, or high-cost materials that are not easily disposed.
