0: In this paper, a green, inexpensive, rapid, and innovative process for fabricating self-standing Li-ion electrodes is presented.
1: This proposed method particularly avoids the use of resistive and costly binders (i.e., PVDF) as well as volatile and toxic solvents (e.g., NMP).
2: Based on the paper-making process, the method includes the filtration of an aqueous solution that contains millimetric cellulose fibers (FB) with carbon or a mixture of different carbons and redox active materials (LFP, PTCDA, graphite, or LTO).
3: The preparation time of the electrode is considerably reduced because the grinding, component mixing (conductive additive, binder, anode/cathode material), and slurry preparation steps are replaced by a single step to produce a self-standing film.
4: The present method also allows the amount of carbon in the film to be increased because aluminum and copper current collectors are not used.
5: The first steps that is performed is the deposition of cellulose and carbon fibers to form an integrated carbon-rich current collector.
6: The second step involves the formation of the cathode or anode film on the freshly deposited carbon layer.
7: Following this method, both conventional binders and current collectors are not utilized, thus considerably reducing the fabrication cost of the battery.
8: Moreover, substituting the mass of Al/Cu foils with carbon and cellulose fibers results in stronger electrodes and a more conductive film, thereby leading to better performances.
9: This process could also be less expensive than the casting method, which is commonly used in the fabrication of Li-ion electrodes, because low-cost and abundant materials are used (water, PTCDA, and raw cellulose fibers).
10: Tables  SI1 and  SI2 in the Supporting Information report the price of raw materials used for making electrodes and a cost estimation of both the conventional and the new fabrication method to clearly show the cost saving of our method.
11: In order to facilitate the dispersion of carbons (including graphite as active material) and LFP in water, water-soluble groups, such as aryl-COOH and aryl-SO 3H moieties, are attached to their surface by diazonium chemistry.
12: Generally, self-standing electrodes reported in literature do not employ such modified carbons or modified LFP, making the proposed process innovative and unique.
13: In this process, commercially available cellulose fibers are utilized with no additional transformations to obtain shorter fibers or modified Z-potentials.
14: In most cases, such as in the paper-making industry, aluminum sulfate hydrate is used as a flocculating agent before carbon is added 32.
15: This adjuvant is utilized to neutralize the negative charge present in the cellulose fibers by aluminum cations 42,  43.
16: This compound, however, can further react inside the battery; hence, it is removed from our fabrication process.
17: In recent works, it has been demonstrated that microfibrillated cellulose and highly refined cellulose fibers dispersed in water can be effectively used as binder to elaborate self-standing negative electrodes with excellent electrochemical and mechanical performances 34,  44.
18: To obtain fibers in the diameter range of 5250 nm, acid hydrolysis, and chemical and enzymatic treatments are necessary.
19: These steps, however, incur additional costs and increase preparation time 45.
