0: Characteristically, coronavirus (CoV) infection begins with viral entry that is mediated by the transmembrane spike (S) glycoprotein.
1: This process entails (i) host cell receptor binding by the S1 subunit, and (ii) proteolytic cleavage to yield the activated S2 subunit, which mediates virus-cell fusion and entry at the endosomes 7 (Fig.
2: 1).
3: Similar to the closely related SARS-CoV, SARS-CoV-2, the novel coronavirus responsible for COVID-19, uses the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) type I membrane protein as its primary receptor in cross-species and human-to-human transmission, which occurs primarily via respiratory droplets and contact 7  12.
4: In addition to the respiratory tract and lungs, human ACE2 is broadly expressed in many organs including the heart, kidney and intestine.
5: This is consistent with non-respiratory symptoms in COVID-19 patients such as acute cardiac injury, renal failure, and diarrhea 9,  13  15.
6: A risk map based on ACE2 expression has identified the respiratory tract, esophagus, lung, heart, kidney, ileum and bladder as highly vulnerable organs 13.
7: Specifically, there is enriched ACE2 expression in type II alveolar cells (AT2), myocardial cells, proximal tubules of the kidney, ileum and esophageal epithelial, and bladder urothelial cells 13.
8: In addition to ACE2, host cell serine protease transmembrane protease serine 2 (TMPRSS2) is also important for the S glycoprotein activation for fusion 16.
9: Unlike SARS-CoV, the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein contains a polybasic cleavage site at the S1/S2 junction, which can be cleaved by furin, leading to efficient cell-to-cell transmission, possibly increasing COVID-19 disease severity 17.
10: Other important host cell factors that contribute to SARS-CoV-2 entry include phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate 5-kinase (PIKfyve), lysosomal two pore channel subtype 2 (TPC2), and endosomal cysteine protease cathepsin L (CTSL) 11.
11: Overall, a number of factors facilitate entry of SARS-CoV-2 during COVID-19; amongst these, ACE2, TMPRSS2, and CTSL have been repeatedly identified as central viral entry factors, as summarized in Fig.
12: 1.
