0: Kidney cancer is among the 10 most common cancers in adults and renal cell carcinoma (RCC) shows a steady increase in prevalence [ 1].
1: RCC is known to be the most common type of kidney cancer and is responsible for up to 85% of cases; it is more common in males than in females (ratio, 1.7:1), and most of the patients are at an older age (average age of 64 years) [ 1].
2: Primarily, RCC is categorized into subtypes according to histological classification under a microscope, including clear cell (ccRCC, also known as KIRC), papillary (pRCC, also known as KIRP), chromophobe (chRCC, also known as KICH), and some other, less common subtypes such as collecting duct, medullary RCC, and unclassified RCC [ 2].
3: The most prevalent one among kidney cancers is ccRCC which represents 7580% of RCC [ 3] and derives its name from its clear cytoplasm on the pathologic analysis [ 4].
4: The rest are papillary (1015%), chromophobe (5%), and rare kidney cancers.
5: Although improvement of the state-of-the-art treatment technologies, the overall prognosis is still poor in RCCs, particularly for patients who present with the advanced-stage disease [ 1].
6: Therefore, early diagnosis and successful urological procedures with partial or total nephrectomy can be life-saving.
7: However, only about 10% of RCC patients present with urological problems or other known clinical symptoms.
8: More than sixty percent of patients are incidentally noticed at imaging investigations [ 5], and metastasis has already begun in nearly 2030% of the patients when diagnosed [ 6].
9: In this context, biomarker identification from secretion fluids is extremely important for early diagnosis.
10: Furthermore, biomarkers are becoming increasingly significant to facilitate the discovery of anti-cancer agents, to distinguish cancer cells from the other cells, to understand drug action mechanisms, to predict prognosis, to design personalized medication, and to understand the mechanisms underlying response to therapy.
11: All types of kidney cancers are different in many respects including tumor location within the kidney, the cell type from which they originate, and alterations on their genotype, making it even more crucial to characterize the pathology of each type and to identify specific proteins as druggable targets.
