0: Renal cell carcinoma (RCC), the most common type of kidney cancer, accounts for 23% of all malignancies in adults ( 1).
1: However, RCC is highly resistant to conventional anticancer treatments, including radio- and cytotoxic chemotherapy.
2: Previous studies have demonstrated that RCC cell lines are resistant to the apoptosis induced by chemical or immunological preparations and radiation ( 2).
3: Apoptosis, the most well-known form of programmed cell death, is a controlled, energy-dependent process.
4: Strategies to combat the resistance of tumors to apoptosis through extrinsic and intrinsic pathways are being investigated.
5: Once the glutathione protease (caspase) family is activated, apoptosis is triggered ( 3).
6: Inhibitors of apoptosis proteins (IAP) directly bind to and inhibit the caspases, serving a vital role in the regulation of cell apoptosis ( 4).
7: The X-linked IAP, the most potent and ubiquitous caspase inhibitor in the IAP family, is the downstream inhibitor of apoptosis ( 5).
8: XIAP is able to restrain apoptosis through suppression of the apoptosis initiation factor, caspase-9, and the implementation factors, caspase-3 and 7 ( 6).
9: XIAP is highly expressed in various malignancies and is weakly expressed or absent in healthy cells ( 7).
10: A previous study demonstrated that XIAP expression is markedly upregulated in RCC compared with that in healthy kidney cells ( 8).
11: Additionally, in our previous study, an upregulation and a stage- and grade-dependent increase in anti-apoptotic XIAP expression in RCC were observed through analysis of XIAP expression in the primary tumor tissue of 66 RCC patients ( 9).
12: Given its role in apoptosis and its frequently elevated expression in malignant cells, XIAP may be a promising therapeutic target in cancer ( 10).
13: Numerous studies have demonstrated that if XIAP expression were to be inhibited by antisense oligonucleotides or small interfering RNA (siRNA), the proliferation of tumor cells may be suppressed, cell apoptosis induced and malignant cells sensitized to chemotherapeutic agents ( 11, 12).
14: However, a previous study on the biological functions of XIAP focused on the direct competitive inhibition of caspases by its baculoviral IAP repeat (BIR) 1, BIR2 and BIR3 domains ( 13).
15: Further studies have demonstrated that the RING domain of XIAP, which has E3 ubiquitin ligase activity, is able to promote the self-ubiquitination degradation of XIAP and its negative regulatory protein, second mitochondria-derived activator of caspase/direct inhibitor of apoptosis-binding protein with low pl.
16: As a result of the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of its specific RING domain, XIAP is able to attach to target proteins to determine their specificity to ubiquitination by recognizing target substrates and promoting protein degradation ( 14).
17: A previous study demonstrated that XIAP mediated rapid mouse double minute 2 homolog (Mdm2) degradation through intrinsic E3 ubiquitin ligase activity and regulation of the Mdm2-tumor protein p53 (p53) signaling pathway ( 15).
18: A small number of reports have demonstrated that the XIAP RING domain influences certain signaling cascades associated with cell death, inflammation and cell migration ( 16, 17).
19: Therefore, it remains unclear whether or not XIAP also participates in the regulation of other pathways by means of ubiquitin-mediated degradation of specific substrates by its RING domain.
20: It may be beneficial to elucidate the currently unknown biological functions of XIAP in RCC.
