0: Viral myocarditis (VMC) can produce nonspecific interstitial myocardial inflammation and necrosis, leading to malignant arrhythmias, heart failure, and even sudden cardiac death in young patients [ 1].
1: The development of VMC can be divided into three phases.
2: First, the entry of the virus into myocytes causes myocardial damage and induces the hosts innate immune system to remove the pathogens.
3: The second phase is characterized by adaptive immune and autoimmune responses.
4: In this stage, activation of T cells, cytokines, and antibodies begin to target on the normal organs, which aggravates cardiac damage and impairs contractile function.
5: In the third phase, persist autoimmune processes in the myocardium can cause myocardial remodeling and lead to the development of dilated cardiomyopathy [ 2, 3].
6: The current researches on VMC are mainly focused on the last two phases.
7: CD4+ T cells, also known as Th cells, are recognized as playing crucial roles in mediating the immune response in these phases [ 4, 5].
8: Some studies have reported inflammatory responses are significantly reduced in CD4 knockout mice with myocarditis [ 6].
9: Recently, subsets of Th cells, including Th1, Th2, Th17, and Treg cells, have been reported to exhibit differential, or even opposing, effects on the pathogenesis of myocarditis [ 4].
10: Huber et al.
11: discovered that male mice were more susceptible to developing VMC from coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) infection than were female mice [ 7].
12: Immune response to CVB3 is dominated by Th1 cell-mediated immunity in male mice, while VMC immune mediation occurs via Th2 in female mice.
13: Interestingly, the development of myocarditis was significantly inhibited in male VMC mice that were transplanted with Th2 cells from female mice [ 7].
14: Fairwearher and colleagues reported that Th1 responses increased acute inflammation, yet this response protected against CVB3 myocarditis by inhibiting viral replication and Th2 responses.
15: Th2 responses reduced CVB3 myocarditis by inhibiting inflammation, but can promote progression to dilated cardiomyopathy by stimulating cardiac remodeling [ 8].
16: Many studies have shown that Th17 cells and their cytokines promote the development of myocarditis [ 8, 9].
17: In contrast, Treg cells have powerful anti-inflammatory effects on myocarditis, and maintaining the balance between Th17 and Treg cells is crucial in murine and human myocarditis [ 10, 11].
18: In distinct myocarditis models, the peak time point of acute myocarditis was different, the CVB3-only model was d 7, the hybrid-CVB3 model was d 10, and the experimental autoimmune myocarditis was d 21 [ 8].
19: In VMC pathogenesis, multiple cytokines are activated that are closely related to those seen during differentiation of the Th cell subsets.
