0: To cope with abiotic stress, crops can induce different adaptive changes in growth and biological functions, such as morphological adjustments, physiological changes, epigenetic modifications, and the accumulation of protective metabolites and beneficial proteins 5.
1: Such changes assist survival in hostile environments, and can be potentially beneficial to recurring stresses.
2: Research has shown that pre-exposure of abiotic stress in plants could induce stress memory, which facilitates the stress response system during recurring stress events, either in the current generation (in-generation), or in the following generation (trans-generation) 6  8.
3: Plants often exhibit different responses to repeated abiotic stress from a single stress event on many levels, including physiological, morphological or epigenetic changes.
4: In spring barley, intense drought stress applied on the parental plants significantly affected the growth and functioning of the progeny 7.
5: Parental drought stress applied at the flag leaf stage enhanced the growth of thin and long roots in the progeny at low biomass cost, which was considered as an adaptive response to enhance the uptake of water and mineral nutrients 7.
6: Similarly, in  Polygonum persicaria, an annual plant in the buckwheat family, drought stress applied in two previous generations significantly affected the seedling development in the third generation 6.
7: Seedlings originated from the stressed parents and grandparents developed longer root systems with a higher rate of extension into deep soil.
8: Two-generational drought stress also induced greater biomass in the offspring.
9: More importantly, the study showed that the transgenerational effects of drought stress were cumulative  two continuous generations of drought stress induced greater adaptive changes than just one generation of stress 6.
10: In winter oilseed rape, drought stress applied before the flowering stage had significant negative impacts on the parents in the eight studied cultivars 8.
11: However, the transgenerational effects on the progeny of the stressed parents was positive.
12: The subsequent generation exhibited higher seedling vigour than the non-stressed controls due to the enhancement of metabolic processes, which could be possibly explained by stress memory mechanisms involving changes in the epi-genome 8.
13: Other studies have also explored the involvement of epigenetic mechanisms in transgenerational effects of abiotic stresses.
14: For example, in rice, multi-generations of drought stress has improved the adaptability of offspring to recurring stress via epimutation accumulation 9  12.
15: Drought-induced DNA methylation patterns were maintained across generations, where genes related to these multi-generational epimutations participate in stress-responsive pathways with direct effects on morphological and physiological traits such as antioxidant capacity.
16: The research suggests that epigenetic changes induced by transgenerational stress may provide a new approach to enhance stress tolerance in breeding.
