0: The aim of the study was to determine the effect of different heat treatments on the formation and stability of retained austenite in the steel containing 5% Mn and the increased Al addition.
1: In order to minimize the number of tests and also avoid a trial-error approach, in the first step of the research, theoretical calculations based on the above chemical composition were carried out by the JMatPro (database ver.
2: 11.2) general steel module [ 14].
3: The MUCG (database ver.
4: 83) software was applied to calculate the effects of manganese and aluminum on the Gibbs free energy changes in the case of the analyzed steel [ 15].
5: The calculations in equilibrium and non-equilibrium conditions were made to determine appropriate heat treatment schedules for the analyzed steel.
6: Based on the calculations, the parameters for the three different treatments were selected.
7: The isothermal holding in a bainite region and the coiling simulation routes reflected steel cooling from the austenitization step, whereas the third one, intercritical annealing, corresponded to the microstructure formation upon heating from room temperature (see  Figure 1 for a general scheme of the described routes).
8: Note that the treatment parameters shown in  Figure 1 are the result of theoretical calculations, as it will become clear in the following sections of the manuscript.
9: The isothermal treatment in  Figure 1a (or variant A) was performed in the bainitic region of the steel.
10: This approach allows for the austenite stabilization in a process of carbon rejection from bainitic plates.
11: The second treatment or variant B ( Figure 1b) corresponds to the coiling simulation.
12: In this case, the presumable formation of ferrite is predicted.
13: Ferrite similarly to bainite rejects carbon, which diffuses to austenite increasing its thermal stability.
14: The last performed treatment ( Figure 1c) was an intercritical annealing, variant C. The formation of ferrite during heating and annealing steps increases the carbon content in the austenite.
15: The distinguishable feature between the three described treatments is the microstructure right before isothermal holding.
16: Thus, in the case of the variants A and B, the microstructure is 100% austenite, while for variant C, which exploits reverse austenite transformation, the initial microstructure is composed of ferrite and austenite.
