0: Furthermore, the interfacial issues, including interfaces between anode and SCEs, cathode and SCEs, and ceramic and polymer, are considered the crucial obstacles for the poor power and cycling performance of allsolidstate lithium battery.
1: It is of great significance to constructing high stable and lower resistance for highperformance allsolidstate lithium battery.
2: The SCEs not only promote the construction of a low resistance interface between SCEs and lithium anode, but can also effectively suppress the Li dendrite growth and side reactions of ICEs with Li metal anode.
3: Unfortunately, the thickness of the developed SCEs is still much larger than commercial separator and it is difficult to maintain the interface stability and suppress the Li dendrite growth in allsolidstate batteries at a higher current density and larger plating and stripping capacity.
4: The interfacial issues at cathode side are more complex and there are numerous solid/solid interfaces with very large resistance between cathode particles and SCEs.
5: These interfaces are unstable during long cycling of allsolidstate battery due to the volume change of cathode materials.
6: Constructing highefficient and stable ionconducting networks inside the cathode is quite essential for practical application of allsolidstate battery.
7: In addition, the multilayer symmetrical/asymmetric SCEs according to the characteristics of anode and cathode also have been developed to solve the interfacial problems of anode and cathode simultaneously.
8: Furthermore, the homogeneous dispersion of ceramic fillers can contribute to the construction of continuous highspeed and uniform Li ion migration channels, which may be greatly influenced by the particle size, shape, arrangement, and 3D ceramic framework of ceramic in SCEs.
9: Some physical and chemical methods should be further developed to create compatible interface of ceramic with polymer for promoting the development and application of allsolidstate lithium battery.
