0: Cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) refers to plants inability to yield functional pollen, and this natural occurrence is widespread in vascular plants, specifically in flowering plants [ 1].
1: Researchers use CMS to adequately breed crops for hybrid seed production, which is a highly effective approach to use heterosis [ 2].
2: CMS appears to be mainly caused by rearrangements, deletions, or mutations of genes located in mitochondria, which can be eliminated by the fertility restoration factor genes present in the nuclear genome [ 3,  4].
3: CMS not only can be used to study the relationship between cytoplasmic genes and nuclear genes but can also be a suitable donor for examining heterosis, providing a theoretical basis for three-line breeding [ 5,  6].
4: As researchers continue to elucidate the factors that lead to abnormal pollen development, several factors can cause this phenomenon to be discovered.
5: Scientists have made corresponding assumptions regarding CMS mechanisms, such as cytotoxicity, advanced programmed cell death (PCD), energy deficit, and reverse inverse regulation hypotheses [ 7].
6: Although there is no direct evidence to prove the toxic protein hypothesis, the fertility suppression effect of sterility genes on prokaryotic cells has been well documented [ 8 10].
7: Rearrangement of mitochondrial genes leads to energy loss, which might be a significant reason for anther abortion in CMS [ 11].
8: Previous studies have shown that during the CMS-T of maize, the mitochondria split rapidly during anther development.
9: Therefore, elevated expression of CMS genes might cause mitochondrial function defects, resulting in insufficient energy supply for male organ development, thus triggering abortion [ 12].
10: ATP synthesis requires the flow of hydrogen ions generated by the concentration gradient of hydrogen ions produced by complex I, II, III, and IV in the mitochondria, and the integrity of the mitochondrial membrane structure is crucial to the generation of ATP [[ 11,  13]].
11: Many proteins encoded by CMS genes, including  URF13, ORF138, ORF79, and  ORPH79, are transmembrane proteins.
12: These proteins may bind to the mitochondrial inner membrane, affecting the hydrogen ion concentration gradient, thus affecting ATP synthesis [ 14 16].
