0: In rapeseed, the most familiar type of CMS is  pol CMS, which is used worldwide for research purposes.
1: Since its discovery in 1987, it has been found that abnormal transcription of the mitochondrial gene  orf224/atp6 leads to the occurrence of  pol CMS [ 27], but how the sterility gene  orf224 contributes to the development of abnormal anther functioning remains to be explored [ 28].
2: Besides, the restoration gene of  pol CMS has been verified by map-based cloning [ 29 31] .
3: Rfp (fertility-restorer) is a nuclear gene encoding a PPR protein located in mitochondria, and it ultimately leads to the malfunctioning of the sterility gene  orf224, thus allowing restoration of pol CMS-induced fecundity [ 29].
4: However, the mechanism of fertility restorer is not scrutinized.
5: Anther examination in  B. napus showed that some proteins cumulative levels fluctuate considerably, including proteins related to energy and carbohydrate metabolisms, photosynthesis and flavonoid production, aldehyde dehydrogenase performance, and cell wall remodeling [ 32].
6: CMSs occurrence is characterized by considerable differences in protein level, transcription level, and metabolic level.
7: We will further analyze CMSs causes and results through the combined analysis of proteomes, transcriptomes, and metabolomes to provide a new research basis for elucidating nuclear-plasmid interfaces.
8: The discovery of new types of CMS may not only improve the cytoplasmic resources of cruciferous plants but also provide valuable resources for examining nuclear-plasmid interaction [ 11,  33].
9: In the development of multi-omics, nucleomics (including genomics and transcriptomics) reveal the underlying factors of life phenomena, proteomics reveals the external factors of life phenomena, and metabolomics reveals the final results phenomena.
10: Therefore, by integrating the results of different monolayers of histology to realize the deeper excavation of the essence of life phenomena from cause to effect and from the surface to inward, we will have a more comprehensive and accurate understanding of the laws that reveal the characteristics of life [[ 34,  35]].
