0: Lizard capacity to self-detach or amputate their tail in flight response from predators is known as the shedding of the tail or caudal autotomy 7.
1: These stages include exudation of excessive blood loss; minimizing muscle and bone tissue damage; controlled vascularisation; promotes wound epithelium and further unsegmented remodelling 8.
2: The detachment of tail activates multiple cellular responses which spurts the blastema mediated cell proliferation 9, angiogenesis, remodelling and generating a replacement.
3: Studies related to the patterning of successful regenerated autotomized tail or replica consists mainly of nerve cells networking, unsegmented cartilaginous, muscle cells, blood vessels and differential remodelling of cells which make this an interesting research to comprehend the cellular and molecular mechanisms associated with the developmentof regenerated tail 10  12.
4: With the elucidation of the genes and their associated proteins involved in regeneration, there can be a possibility of understanding why in humans regeneration is restricted as compared to anamniotes.
5: This also might pave in giving insights into spinal injuries and the fabrication of replacement therapies 13.
6: Research on the regeneration of tail and its governing molecular mechanism in other lizard species like  Podarcis muralis14,  15;  Hemidactylus flaviviridis16; Green Anole 17,  18; and also in other vertebrates like axolotl 19 have been carried out related to histology, proteomics and genomics 20,  21.
7: Though many genes or proteins have been known still the underlying mechanisms of these molecules remains ambiguous.
8: In this study for the first time we have used common house Gecko,  Hemidactylus frenatus22 as a model animal to study the genes/proteins associated with tail regeneration particularly during the initial stages of tail regeneration.
9: Hemidactylus frenatus have been studied generally for their behavioural, habitat diversification and regenerative abilities 9,  23  26.
