0: Recent genome-wide studies have focused on cell-specific metabolism in cyanobacteria by comparing gene transcript levels under different growth conditions or stage-specific gene expression signatures in response to nitrogen step-down.
1: RNA sequencing was used to study transcript expression levels in filaments at different periods of nitrogen step-down using a mixture of heterocysts and vegetative cells [ 17 19].
2: Using samples collected during the differentiation in three developmental states, a DNA microarray containing 6,893 gene fragments were was used to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) regulating the differentiation of heterocysts, akinetes, and hormogonia in the cyanobacterium  Nostoc punctiforme [ 20].
3: Similarly, seven genes encoding transcriptional regulators that respond to nitrogen deprivation in  Anabaena sp.
4: strain PCC 7120 were identified by oligonucleotide microarray technology, and the results for an  nrrA deletion mutant suggested that  nrrA facilitates heterocyst development [ 21].
5: However, vegetative cells in the mycelium samples were not separated from heterocysts in the filamentous cyanobacteria.
6: Therefore, the function of vegetative cells and heterocysts may have been biased in sequencing and bioinformatics analysis.
7: Compared with vegetative cells, heterocysts cells of  Anabaena have thicker walls and better resist adverse external environments, providing a theoretical basis for the separation and purification of the two types of cells.
8: In general, two strategies are used to isolate and purify heterocysts from the mycelium: sonication treatment [ 22] or lysozyme treatment [ 23].
9: Vegetative cells easily crack during these treatments, resulting in the isolation of heterocysts without vegetative cells.
10: Heterocysts can be isolated from mycelium containing both vegetative cells and heterocysts of  Anabaena sp.
11: strain 7120 with lysozyme for RNA-Seq analysis ( Fig 1).
12: We evaluated important candidate genes involved in nitrogen fixation and photosynthesis in vegetative cells and heterocysts from  Anabaena sp.
13: strain PCC 7120 at the transcriptome level and provide insight into the molecular mechanisms of nitrogen fixation and photosynthesis in both cell types.
