0: As described in this progress report, there is a strong competition between the two key sodium battery technologies: nonaqueous NaO 2 and hybrid Naair batteries.
1: Nonaqueous NaO 2 batteries are safer than hybrid Naair due to the usage of organic electrolyte as anolyte and catholyte.
2: Indeed, the reaction of water with metal sodium can be explosive.
3: However, the use of an organic electrolyte leads to a nonconductive and insoluble discharge product that deposits in the pores of the air electrode and progressively covers the active reaction sites and blocks the O 2 diffusion pathway.
4: This detrimental process increases the overpotentials specifically during charging, which is accompanied by a reduction of the power density and worsens the cyclic stability.
5: In addition, organic electrolytes are more expensive, flammable, and with a certain level of toxicity.
6: Most of nonaqueous NaO 2 cell required usage of either pure and dry oxygen or oxygen diffusion membrane which will also increase the cost of the cell.
7: However, the research in the area of hybrid Naair battery is gaining momentum since its first reports in 2013.
8: The hybrid Naair cell uses less organic electrolyte and consumes air as oxygen source thereby immediately reducing the cost, in contrast to aprotic NaO 2 cell.
9: In mixed electrolyte system (aqueous electrolyte and aprotic electrolyte), the formed discharge product is soluble in water thus diminishing the clogging and electronic conductivity issues related to organic electrolytes.
10: Unlike nonaqueous NaO 2 battery, hybrid Naair battery offers several advantages such as low overpotential, high energy efficiency, low electrode polarization, good cyclic stability, and use of ambient air as source of oxygen.
11: Though hybrid Naair batteries offer potential solution to nonaqueous NaO 2, yet some challenges remain which needs to be investigated and optimized for future practical applications.
12: NASICON, the solid electrolyte membrane, is an essential component in hybrid Naair battery.
13: However, the interfacial chemistry between the organic electrolyte and NASICON is not known yet but need to be understood and controlled because it typically affects the resistance of the cell.
14: Additionally, the use of NASICON has limitations for chargedischarge processes of the cells at high current densities (for practical application current density should be 100 mA cm 2) and its ionic conductivity requires further improvement.
15: In most of the studies associated with hybrid Naair cells, metallic Na has been used as anode and it is well known that metallic sodium tends to form dendritic structure upon deposition and stripping process.
16: One challenge would be to design metallic anodes with artificial SEI or to modify its surface properties to prevent the formation of dendrites.
17: The hybrid system requires two different electrolytes.
18: At the present time, NaOH and KOH appear to be good choices for catholyte, but the proper selections of an organic electrolyte and respective Na salt need to be addressed.
19: The organic electrolyte decides the formation of stable SEI on anode which will also help to prevent the growth of dendrites and eventually improves the performance of the cell.
20: Moreover, in the existing hybrid Naair battery, the evaporation of water is an issue leading to drying the solid electrolyte membrane and deactivating the air electrode.
21: The consequence is an enhancement of the resistance and a degradation of the catalytic processes.
22: Hence water evaporation must be prevented with proper encapsulation.
23: Last, the proper selection and design of the air electrode seems to be a key topic to improve the performance of hybrid Naair cell.
24: The air electrode should catalyze both OER and ORR associated with charge and discharge of the cell, hence key electrocatalyst functionalizing the air electrode should be bifunctional in nature.
25: In addition to its bifunctional character, the catalyst should be highly porous and interconnected for efficient diffusion of electrolyte ions and oxygen in order to have a large triple point area (gas, solid, liquid) where electrocatalytic reactions take place.
26: Various metal oxides or metal oxide in combination with carbon nanostructures, or carbon materials alone, have been studied for hybrid Naair cells.
27: Today, most air electrodes suffer from high charge potential possibly due to the poor catalytic activity for OER.
28: Therefore, in the future it is highly desirable to design air electrode which can efficiently catalyze OER and ORR.
