0: Superimposed onto regional differences is the control of cell identity and differentiation, and several well-characterised TFs serve as markers for musculoskeletal lineages.
1: Chondrogenic cells express  PAX1,  PAX9 and  SOX9 and dermomyotomal myogenic progenitors are characterised by PAX3 and PAX7.
2: Committed myoblasts express  MYF5 and  MYOD, while MYOG and KLHL31 are markers for differentiated myocytes 18  20.
3: Other transcriptional regulators that are important in paraxial mesoderm include TCF15 (Paraxis), a bHLH TF required for somite epithelialization; 21 CDX (Caudal), which is necessary for axis elongation; 22 and MEOX1, which is involved in somite morphogenesis, patterning and differentiation, particularly of sclerotome-derived structures 23,  24.
4: In human, mutations of MEOX1 are found in patients with Klippel-Feil Syndrome, which is associated with fusion and numerical defects in the cervical spine as well as scoliosis 25,  26.
5: Whilst the sequence of marker gene expression in paraxial mesoderm is well defined 19,  20, the epigenetic and genomic mechanisms that control these transcriptional programmes remain largely unknown.
6: The identification of enhancers has improved through high-throughput sequencing assays and comparative genomic analysis, however, experimental validation of enhancer activity remains challenging.
7: In this study, we assay spatiotemporal changes in both gene expression signatures and accessible chromatin that occur in differentiating paraxial mesoderm along the anteriorposterior axis.
8: We define differentially accessible chromatin regions within  HOX genes that are associated with regional identities.
9: Footprint analysis shows differential occupancy and coverage of binding sites along the axis for several TFs, including HOXA10, HOXA11, CDX2, LEF1 and RARA.
10: CDX2 and LEF1 are both involved in similar processes during axis extention.
11: However, network analysis shows that CDX2 and LEF1 footprints are associated with different expressed genes and there is little overlap in the genes they interact with.
12: Correlating accessible chromatin with nearby expressed genes identifies cis-regulatory elements (CREs).
13: We focus here on enhancers located upstream of  TCF15 and  MEOX1 and validate these in vivo, using electroporation of fluorescent reporters into gastrula-stage chick embryos.
14: Time-lapse imaging shows the onset of enhancer activation in paraxial mesoderm and mutation of candidate TF motifs or epigenome modification leads to loss of gene expression and phenotypic changes.
15: The  MEOX1 CRE is evolutionary conserved in amphibians and human.
16: Altogether our data characterises the accessible chromatin and gene expression landscapes in paraxial mesoderm, at different stages of somite maturation.
