0: Energy storage devices are the most significant parts for the practical application of the renewable energy and electric vehicles (EVs), which promote the replacement of conventional power resources by renewable energy.
1: 1,  2,  3 As the most promising energy storage systems, lithium batteries show several advantages, such as high operating voltage, high energy density, low selfdischarge rate, and long cycle life.
2: 4 Therefore, they have been widely used in electronic devices, energy storage systems, and EVs.
3: At present, the energy density of commercial lithium ion batteries with liquid electrolyte has reached 260 Wh kg 1, which is close to their limitation.
4: 5 Moreover, the safety concern is another huge challenge for their wide application in the EVs.
5: The liquid electrolytes contain combustible organic solvents and thus might cause leakage and fire risks during overcharge or abused operations, especially in largescale applications.
6: Therefore, replacing the liquid electrolyte with allsolidstate electrolyte for lithium batteries is quite necessary.
7: 5,  6 Generally, the allsolidstate electrolytes could be classified into solid polymer electrolytes (SPEs), inorganic ceramic electrolytes (ICEs), and solid composite electrolytes (SCEs).
8: The SPEs consist of polymer matrix mixed with lithium salts, which consequently possess excellent process ability, flexibility, safety performance, and good interfacial contact with electrodes, but present low ionic conductivity (<10 4 S cm 1), inferior thermal and electrochemical stability, and unsatisfactory behavior in suppression of lithium dendrite growth.
9: 7,  8,  9 On the contrary, the ICEs show higher ionic conductivity (10 310 2 S cm 1), broad electrochemical window, and high mechanical strength, but present poor interfacial contact with electrodes.
10: 10,  11,  12,  13 Above disadvantages of SPEs and ICEs severely restrict their commercial application in power lithium batteries.
11: The SCEs constructed by SPEs and inorganic fillers inherit the advantages of both SPEs and the inorganic fillers such as high ionic conductivity (>10 4 S cm 1), good flexibility, and intimate contact with electrodes as shown in  Figure1.
12: Therefore, the SCEs are considered one of the most promising candidate electrolytes for allsolidstate lithium batteries in the future.
13: 14,  15
